hello everyone and welcome to this
week's after-effects quick tip scripting
tutorial in this one I'm gonna be
showing you how to do batch text
automation inside of your projects now
the reason you might want to do
something like this is if you have
dozens or hundreds of text layers you
need to change on masse whether it be
the font size the layer scale or you can
even apply expressions or animation to
all of them or they can be in like this
case where all the text that we are
dealing with is inside of several layers
of pre compositions and this process
goes hundreds and hundreds of times and
all we need to do is say adjust the
layer scale or the font size to make it
look a little bit nicer the script I'm
going to be going over today that I used
practically in this example in a real
world project is going to essentially
allow us to input the custom font size
and layer scale that we want and what
it's going to do is apply that to that
all the text layers inside of the
specific project and I'm going to show
you how to basically build out something
like this and go in and make these mass
changes so like in this case if I want
to do something dramatic like change the
font size to 500 of all of these pre
comps text objects all I have to do is
run the script and it's gonna tell me
when the process is complete just to
make sure I know that it went through
and did everything and now we should see
a nice update and the text is obviously
a little bit too big but the the point
stands that we can change the font size
or the layer scale and of course all
this is enclosed in an app topic and
under group so because we're changing
hundreds of text layers we can easily
press control Z and undo all of the
things that we just did and before we
get started I just wanted to remind you
to hit subscribe down below as well as
the bell icon to be notified of when new
videos are coming out twice weekly on
Monday and Thursday on the channel and
down below you can follow us on github
and Instagram to be notified of new
coding projects and video uploads and of
course don't forget to follow the
discord server where you can check out
these scripting extensions plugins or
general text channels and here you can
discuss scripting questions extension
questions or any other questions you may
have or start collaborating and getting
to know some of the local scripting
community so let's go over how I put
this script together the process I went
through and how you can make
Automation text changes yourself so
essentially I started off by defining of
course the composition where all of
these text layers exist in so again each
one of the text layers in this
particular composition are inside of a
pre composition and another pre
composition until we can actually access
the text layer where we can make the
changes so the first thing the script
needed to do was to go through and
identify each of these sort of layers of
pre compositions so we could break it
down and get all the layers we need so
what we do is after we've defined our
main composition here we loop through
all of the layers and we're gonna check
each time if the layer source is not
null what this means is that the layer
that it's currently looking at has some
kind of source over here in the project
panel in our case all of these pre
compositions they do have a source
inside of the project panel that we can
access then I check that that source is
an instance of a composition which plain
and simple tells us that we have a pre
composition on our hands because we're
looking at a bunch of layers the source
of the layer happens to exist and the
source of that layer is a composition
which indicates it has to be a pre
composition so I go through all of the
layers in the composition and I create
an array full of those pre compositions
that we found so what it's going to do
is go through and find each one of these
pre comps and store in that array then
again we have another layer of pre
compositions within each one of those
pre comps so I run another loop through
all of our pre compositions and the
layers within it because we're not sure
maybe it's layer one that the pre
composition is on maybe it's layer three
or four we want to again just find the
only pre composition inside of well this
other pre composition so again going
through all of the layers in our current
pre composition what we're going to do
is make sure the source is not null make
sure it exists in the project panel and
then we're going to check again if it's
a comp item if that's the case we have
our sub pre compositions so we have a
whole bunch of sub pre comps now which
each of these sub pre comps contains all
of our main pure animation and text
layers what we're going to do lastly is
loop through those and find the one text
layer in each of them so we loop through
all of our layers in our sub pre
compositions and again this can vary
depending on your project you could have
five sub layers of pre compositions or
just one and we're gonna check if the
source text value is true because only
with a text layer can you access a
property called source text you can't do
that with a footage layer or anything
else so if the layer has the property
source text we know it's a text layer
and if that's the case we're going to
have our array called text layers here
fill up with all of those text layers so
all those loops and everything there are
basically just to read down into our
project that specifically and find any
of the text layers we need to modify you
could do the same process to look for
other layer types or types of elements
in your compositions but in this case
this gets to our text layer very
efficiently so now that we have all of
our text layers we're finally going to
create a function called change the font
size and layer scale this of course you
can customize to be whatever you want
but in my case what I have is a function
that requires a whole bunch of layers
which again we've gone through and
gotten all of these text layers and then
we're going to give it a custom font
size and a custom scale now whether you
apply the font size and the scale is up
to you sometimes I just want to apply
the font size unmask sometimes you want
to change just the layer scale on mess a
reason for not wanting to change
everything is for example in my case
sometimes these inner text layers have
expressions applied to them based on
previous presets and maybe we just want
to change the font size since that's not
really animated or has an expression
applied to it so what I'm doing is
calling my function here where I
actually I'm going to change the font
size and layer scale and I'm giving the
values of 500 for the font size and 155
for the layer scale inside of the
function itself it's very simple all I'm
doing is running through all of those
layers that we've gone through and
already confirmed our are necessary text
layers and what I'm doing first is
setting the time of each of the
compositions for these layers to two
seconds the reason for this is the text
layers aren't visible at 0 seconds and
just figured if I'm gonna run through
all of these and need to run any
calculations the text should be visible
so again the first thing I did was set
the comp time to two by grabbing the
layer and the containing composition and
setting the time to two then I'm going
to essentially use the default way you
change font sizes and font properties
inside of After Effects you create a
variable called text prop and set that
equal to the source text property of any
of your text layers then you create
something called the text document which
contains the value of the source text
and inside of the value of the source
text it contains the font size the font
the stroke the fill how those are
applied and everything else all we need
to do is then say text document font
size is equal to the font size argument
we've given it which in this case is
going to give 500 then to save those
settings we need to basically set our
text property equal to this new text
document which has are updated font size
of 500 then again lastly you have the
choice to change the scale if you want
which I've done here by saying adobe
transform grouped out property adobe
scale and we're just setting that equal
to a two-dimensional array with our
scale value but if you don't want to run
it you can just comment it out and
lastly of course you can apply an
expression if you want there are cool
expressions out there that do cool
things to text and maybe you want to
apply this to all of your text layers
and this would be how you would do it by
just saying the property dot expression
and then put in whatever your expression
is and that's basically how you can go
through and do text automation batch
processing inside of After Effects with
the script to recap essentially what you
need to do is look at the structure of
your project and make sure you get all
of the base elements you need to change
in my case I need to go into several
layers of pre compositions to get to the
actual text layer we need to change
maybe in your case you have some screen
overlays and those are contained inside
of pre comps and pre comps you need to
go in to those pre comps and get the
base layer element you need to change
and fill up an array full of all of
those elements then once you've done
that you simply can create a function
where you apply the new values to all of
those elements in my case I'm changing
the font size of any text layer I give
it as well as the scale of the layer
itself if I
so let's run this one more time and do
something crazy like change the font
size to a thousand and let's go ahead
and actually change the layer scale here
just to be 100 flat now we need to make
sure we're inside of the main
composition which we set up our script
to work in and we'll go ahead and run it
and once complete we'll get the alert
again and we can go ahead and see our
newly updated gigantic text but since
this has been enclosed in an under group
we can easily press ctrl Z to undo all
of those changes and start over and try
and find the right value and that's
gonna do it for this week's quick tip
tutorial guys I hope you enjoyed if you
did again hit the like button down below
hit subscribe and the bell icon to be
notified of when new videos are coming
out twice weekly on the channel
typically Monday and Thursday down in
the description you can check out the
link to follow us on github for cool
code examples as well as follow us on
Instagram to be notified exactly of when
new videos are being uploaded and of
course I can't forget to shout out the
discord make sure you join us there in
the scripting extensions or plugins
section where you can ask any questions
you have leave your comments or get to
know some of the other scripters and
plugin writers and lastly you can donate
crypto to the channel now in the
description you can check out the
bitcoin 2 theorem and basic attention
token addresses you can donate thanks
again for watching everyone and we'll
see you in the next one
[Music]